and you guys know this it's just part of
the vibe check these older sales
playbooks marketing playbooks from 2020
21 2022 they're feeling mighty
creaky Mighty creaky I put these small
bullets at the bottom too many folks I
talk to that have been around for
they're just apathetic or jaded they are
I can't tell you how many interviews
I've done the last month or two where
folks bailed when they found out they
had to do the work themselves they
bailed when they found out they were
kpis they they bailed when they found
out they couldn't just the job couldn't
mostly be about them LinkedIn or making
videos about themselves people are
apathetic they're jaded things even
basic things you can look at what
HubSpot and others have talked about how
SEO is down because of Google's changes
in generative AI even tougher one of the
weirdest things of AI is categories that
used to be boring are now exciting
they're now exciting hello everybody
Welcome we're going to do an AMA mostly
today but since I had everybody I wanted
to take Comm minute and do a 2025 Vibe
check A vibe check and I don't know
where folks are based if you're in San
Francisco and you're intact and you're
even at the edge of AI you probably feel
that things are sometimes they're just
crazy Founders are everywhere why
combinator has four batches a year
there's AI events left and right things
feel Fast and Furious outside of that
ecosystem it can seem strange what's
going on and many folks are still
struggling today after a few tough years
I thought I wanted to spend maybe 10 or
15 minutes doing a Vibe check which we
can chat about and then we can chat
about other things as as well so let's
start with the vibe check and hopefully
this will be helpful again but maybe the
thing that and mostly I'm going to use
this to challenge some of the things I
see from both Debbie Downer people on
LinkedIn content producers course
sellers they're just saying a lot of
things that are not really actually
consistent in my experience which what's
happening in Cloud Ai and Sass today so
maybe the weirdest thing and I think
these charts from ey and I put them up
on SAS a couple weeks so you can search
on 2025 VC and you'll see a write up of
this this is the weird thing this is the
weird thing and it's going to explain a
lot of things these two charts I know
they're a little bit hard to see but
I'll explain them if you are connected
to Tech if you are in Venture Capital if
you are in the Bay Area or other things
it's like 20121 but totally different
but a lot like it there is Mania back I
can tell you at s fund I've got two two
super hot startups that are coming up on
unicorns and a bunch of VCS emailed me
they're like I don't even know if I want
to meet with them because I don't want
to have to make a decision in five
minutes on a huge investment I actually
want to do five minutes of diligence I
want to talk to a customer I want to
actually meet the rest of the team and
that's what the vibe felt like at at the
Peak at late 2020 early 2021 literally
VCS would email me they're like oh I'll
just invest and do the diligence after
the term sheet because it seemed like in
2021 when they average public this
sounds crazy today but the average
public SAS company was growing over 70%
in 2021 it was such crazy pandemic fueld
buying that honestly you could almost
make money in Venture just invest on
anything with good growth you it felt
like you didn't have to meet the people
and that has come back to an extent it
has come back to the extent because for
the best AI fueled companies the
growth's just insane again and so people
will take more and more risks so it
feels like it but this these two charts
show where the froth really is because
froth was more evenly distributed in
2021 if you were growing at top five or
10% rates seed a b CDE e were easy even
SAS was easy but even pseudo SAS real
estate agents pretending they were SAS
communities that were pretending they
were SAS things that weren't even
recurring Revenue that felt like SAS
people wanted to invest in everything
today it's very narrow and there's two
things happening if you look on the
bottom right here you'll see that the
majority of investing 44% in 2024
already the majority in 2 is into Ai and
AI native Investments every VC you talk
to wants to be AI you can AI wash your
app and pretend it is but you really
need to be either have a true generative
AI for solution or have something that's
very related to the parts of AI
infrastructure that are scaling like bad
right just because you add a little ml
or add a little chat widget if it
doesn't change the trajectory of your
company I don't think VCS are that
stupid they may be taking a lot of risk
but they're not stupid so realize the
majority of the the VC's going into so
if you're not in either AI SAS or
certain parts of vertical SAS it's
harder to fundraise than it has been in
years look take that chart at the bottom
right your odds if you're non AI in SAS
of getting funded are going down they're
going down so be thoughtful about that
the other thing that's happening on this
upper in this top chart and this is
obvious from the media but but this
chart really shows it is that yeah
there's massive amounts of money and
Venture but it's going into these epic
growth rounds it's going into anthropic
and and open Ai and level 11 and all of
these cool things and Harvey today Cisco
seoa putting 300 million into Harvey for
legal Harvey a that's 300 million it's
these growth rounds that are absorbing
massive amounts of capital especially
because in some cases like a data bricks
open a others the valuations are 50 60
100 300 billion so they can absorb
massive amounts of capital so all this
and what you can see on this chart on
the top chart is the low line is the
number of deals and the number of deals
actually continued to fall at the end of
last year even as the amount of money
went in went way up okay it went almost
back up to 20 2022 2021 levels at the
end of the year so the money is back but
instead of going into tons of deals it's
going into Ai and growth later stage
step so realize where you are if you do
listen I don't think most people should
fundraise this is not all about VC VC is
not the right choice for most people I
firmly believe that even if you do raise
VC for most folks a oneand done is the
best approach raise a little bit of seed
money and then call a day don't take the
stress and pressure but if you are
thinking about fundraising or want to
learn realize in the 2 by two people
want Ai and growth and everything else
is hard it's harder it's harder so it's
a weird world but it means overall VCS
are working super hard tons of deals are
being happening term sheets meetings but
it's just for that one little part of
the two by
two okay and the other thing I wanted to
highlight is just you know I think a lot
of B2B Founders are of three Minds on AI
right one they wish they were growing as
fast is cursor or Harvey or others they
wish they were getting to 100 million in
two years or one year or less but
they're a little skeptical they're like
you know what I I've tried this stuff it
even as great as the new models are
they're still hallucinating I can't get
it's not enough for my customers it
doesn't work I want to wait and see in
my category especially I hear this a lot
in vertical house where it's very
specific in my category I'm waiting to
see what's going to happen maybe that's
okay but if nothing else changes
everywhere and my biggest worry my
biggest Vibe check is move faster
because everyone is excited everyone is
building more software everyone is
shipping more software and you got to
move faster and I compared two two just
classic SAS players here on the right
Shopify yesterday announced they crossed
11 billion run rate 11 billion doll from
shoply and it's accelerating it's
growing 31% at 11.2 billion that's even
better than it sounds because that means
it's added over 3 billion of new e new a
year but most importantly it's the
fastest that's grown in three years the
fastest that's growing in three years
Shopify Shopify is accelerating it's
accelerating at 31% it was in the 20s a
year ago it's accelerating it's more
profitable Higher free cash margins and
it's accelerating even though it's
Crossing to double digit market share
it's just accelerating tripled since
2020 on the bottom I pointed out a
company that I do love but is growth is
slowed as pag your duty pag your duty is
coming up on 500 million Revenue a lot
but grow with this slow to 10% but the
toughest number and there's more
companies like this out there today than
is discussed 0% net new customer growth
this last quarter they announced they
had 15,050 customers a year ago they had
1549 they had one in a year you can
laugh you can say that's funny it's not
funny it's a lot of hard work they're
growing through the 107% NR they're
growing through going more Enterprise
and they're growing through price
increases which is the Playbook of a lot
of folks today that don't have new
products that don't have new moves that
aren't adding to their that aren't
adding to their playbook they're
somewhat out of ideas so what do you do
you raise prices again and again and you
push more and more Enterprise and
abandon your smaller customers which may
help you make the quarter but oftentimes
is abandoning the the future to hit your
present goals but this is too common if
you don't do anything so many folks are
ended up in this Frozen moment where
they're still going to grow with upsells
and going more Market but the customer
count is Frozen it's frozen and this is
more common I see it across there are
many if you talk to they have many
startups hundreds north of a 100 million
where the customer account is frozen so
what do you do you can complain about it
you can raise prices you can threaten to
sue customers if they leave that helps a
little bit like one or two percent but
you know what the real problem with
anyone in this they didn't ship enough
new amazing products that people want to
buy it's that simple and the the world
is accelerating and I know it it sounds
nutsy but if you're in the Bay Area you
will meet so many Founders today that
are working seven days a week 12 hours a
day Brian hallan who co-founded HubSpot
he wrote this up on on LinkedIn on
social media say I can't believe how
hard Founders are working today compared
to when I build HubSpot hubspot's worth
40 billion but they he and dar Mash as
hard as they work they didn't work as
hard as folks are working today and we
can talk about work life balance and we
can talk about quality of life and we
talk about why we're doing it but the
reality is since the dawn of software
it's been competitive right dates and
jobs everybody right and be aware if
your product is basically the same
product as two years ago you may be left
behind that this is the biggest Vibe
check I'm seeing folks left behind and
I'm talking to Founders and the
consistent message I'm telling to them
is it's not too late we're early in this
still early in this wave we're early in
AI for B2B in many use cases but you
better get ahead of it now you better
find a way to build 50% 100% more
product this year and be ahead of it
rather than being frozen in time because
there's a thousand competitors out there
that are gonna that want to steal your
lunch okay the last one I know folks
know this but this is why just for a
Vibe check I I thought it would throw it
out is this is why why it's like 2021
but different all over again there are
many folks that aren't growing at all
there are many folks whose customer
count is the same for the last two years
but man when you're hitting it today
you're hitting it better than ever so
here at the top now this isn't all
software SAS Revenue but deal announced
that 800 million is growing 70% last
week that's pretty good guys and that's
pretty good in a space where they
compete with 10 other customers like
directly indirectly they're competing
with remote and ripling and Gusto and so
many others they're not they don't own
this Market even they don't have on 80%
market share and they're still growing
70% at 800 million and look at cursor
and we could talk about cursor here's
cursor why wi in deal and a few others
we're talking about folks that can go to
100 million in a year or two and on the
right it's just look at all the money
going into Cloud infrastructure so I'm
not saying that this is you I'm not
saying that you are cursor or whiz or
deal but you gotta objectively learn
from them and what's happening today is
the cios are still trimming apps in many
Enterprises the app count is still flat
year-over-year the app count is flat
they are trimming they are forcing folks
to standardize on fewer vendors on the
same vendors to just forget about that
cool like just use what we have that's
happening but on the other hand budgets
overall have grown about 50% for AI so
you've got to comment calm down listen
and find the
budget maybe you think co-pilots are
silly but if there's budget in your
space go build a co-pilot okay maybe
maybe you think it's crazy that
Salesforce is charging $2 for agent
force but if it's working for them maybe
it'll work for you there are different
sources of budget in Ai and I'm not
suggesting be cynical maybe I'm
suggesting be a little cynical because
it's all a lot of this is an experiment
budget but go find it if you sit here
and you don't tap into this Budget on
the bottom right you're wasting an
opportunity you're wasting an
opportunity to tap into this massive
spend that is AI fueled and that AI at
the end of the day is fueling
applications it's fueling B2B
is so go get off if you're feeling sorry
for yourself if growth of slow go find
it because hypergrowth is crazy so it's
also the vibe check it's why some folks
in Venture are morose because they don't
have any players on this chart on the
bottom left and others think it's the
best of time and others are performative
and pretending their customer their
their Investments are doing this well
but it's driving lots and lots of froth
uh and
excitement okay just a couple other
points I just want to make something
super clear to folks I said this up
so many times on saster on our LinkedIn
on social media but profitability
efficiency is great it may be necessary
it may be necessary if you don't have
Capital if you're bootstrapped if You'
spent all your money the public markets
are demanding that everybody be be more
efficient but it's not enough so
profitable hurray no one cares no one
cares yes Shopify we talked about them
at at accelerating it at 12 billion they
are getting more efficient they're
getting more efficient because they're
growing 30% and they're increasing spend
in the teens like sales and marketing I
just wrote it up on sason five
interesting learning sales and marketing
product GNA they're all growing in the
teens they are hiring they are spending
more but in the teens while they grow
30% so if you hire but at a rate lower
than your growth rate you will get more
efficient and more profitable public
markets want that Monday blew out the
quarter they're more much more efficient
than they used to be yes but it's not
the end goal it's necessary but not
sufficient and if you look I inverted
sorted the besser cloud index public
companies by the lowest Revenue
multiples if you look at that chart EV
divided by annualized Revenue that's the
lowest multiples isn't perfect but it
get you a sense some of these folks are
super lean and efficient who cares four
ring central trading at 1.8x revenues
it's profitable right pag your duty we
talked about 3.4x bill.com who I love
one of the best but still 4X Zoom
massively profitable zoom's at four over
four billion in Revenue half of it is
free cash flow zum is generating two
billion of cash out of its four billion
no one cares it's worth three 3.8x
Revenue they care a little bit but they
don't care too much so I still see too
many
conversations of Founders folks of
Revenue Executives blaming other people
saying it's all about efficiency this is
the age of efficiency it's not we are
back to growth look at that chart look
at cursor look at whz this is what the
this is not only what VCS are hunting
it's tough this is where your recruits
want to work they now that there's so
many fast growing startups where do they
want to work they want to work at these
places so it it is challenging but Pro
profitability may be necessary as a
Founder I went profitable at four to
five million because I didn't want to
raise any more money it was great it was
freeing it was liberating I didn't have
to work for the man in a sense anymore I
didn't have to listen to my VCS too much
a little bit be respectful they bet on
you but I didn't listen to them too much
I went profitable but it didn't matter
Beyond um making the the business model
work for me I didn't need to raise but I
didn't get much credit and you're not
getting much credit today so don't
listen too much to folks that say
profitability is the end goal it is
really not um but it may be necessary it
may be necessary in today's world and
then I think two last points and then
we'll break this one I wish I could
we're going to talk a lot about this at
saster annual in May please come it's
going to be great it's something I don't
have all the answers to but I can
recognize the flags which is man and you
guys know this it's just part of the
vibe check these older sales playbooks
marketing playbooks from 2020 21 2022
they're feeling mighty
creaky Mighty creaky I put these small
bullets at the bottom too many folks I
talk to that have been around for a
while they're just apathetic or jaded
they are I can't tell you how many
interviews I've done the last month or
two where folks bailed when they found
out they had to do the work themselves
they bailed when they found out they
were kpis they they bailed when they
found out they couldn't just the job
couldn't mostly be about them LinkedIn
or making videos about themselves people
are apathetic they're jaded things even
basic things you can look at what
HubSpot and others have talked about how
SEO is down because of Google's changes
in generative AI even tougher there's
like a thousand there are categories
that used one of the weirdest things of
AI is categories that used to be boring
are now exciting they're now exciting
when I invested in I co-led the aound in
sales off and there were like three
vendors in that whole space at the time
and people were like who the hell wants
to invest in sales tools this space
sucks people would laugh at this now
every kid in the world has this there's
like how many AI SDR tools are there I
count
7,843 on our tracker okay maybe it's
less legal oh my God I I I led the first
investment in a company called logical
Andy did our Workshop Wednesday he sold
for 300 million last year to private
Equity people were like why would you
invest in legal that's nichy it's tiny
they don't have any money the sales
Cycles are long all true today and then
boom SEO at 300 million in harv aai
today there are hundreds and hundreds of
AI focused legal startups now there are
obviously reasons right what these
things can do for reviewing an NDA for
collaboration IL legal are are epic and
most of these AI S strr tools are not
great today but I believe in a year they
will be so so there's a reason but what
it means is your category may have been
sleepy 12 or 18 months ago it may have
five 10 a thousand times more
competitors than before so it's just
creaky and I don't have all the answers
but I'm I'll point you to two things one
we put up on our YouTube Kyle Norton who
s of owner where I'm on the board
they're adding 100 sales rep this year
and he did this presentation on his
secrets to scaling he's done a workshop
Wednesday too he's done a lot of content
with us he's I love how he thinks about
stuff rationally stay art he'll share
the AI tools he uses he'll share how
he's managing his team today he'll share
that the sales team's going back to the
office
interestingly a remote team going back
to the office together he'll share all
these secrets to skelling it's really
good watch Kyle you got to hire someone
like him
today you can't hire the bitter siero
from 2021 that's complaining that
outbound doesn't work anymore and
doesn't have any solutions I just see
that left and right outbound doesn't
work well Kyle it's working pretty good
at owner but listen and learn how he
does it okay yes look at this awful
email I got from slack the other day I
wrote this up on saster if you can read
it just the people are still writing
this old Playbook it's terrible greeing
from slack and all caps they're telling
me it's a pioneering product for
collaboration can we set up a 30 minutes
call I'm given two time slots that are
good for them it doesn't say anything
about me nor do they know we're already
paying
customers we're already paying customers
for slacking Salesforce they don't even
know it in their own CRM this is
literally a terrible AI D so we're still
running this Playbook and maybe it works
a little bit for Salesforce for the Mega
brands for the Mega Brands where just
being in the game works at least a
little bit I don't think this works for
startups anymore so just I just wouldn't
hire anybody who's all who has no new
ideas for their playbook or their our
ideas are going to bring in clay okay
great amazing app that's not going to do
it in today's world though it is working
like the best ones are going faster than
ever but it's not by running the old
crey playbooks I'm just seeing them fail
close to 100% of the time so I think
that's just about it I'll highlight one
more thing and then we can open it up to
any questions but we just announced if
you coming to saster annual and you have
an AI first product or even an AI first
feature apply to pitch it at the AI demo
stage go on saster annual there's a link
and you can come the slots are super
short they're going to be like two
minutes part of it's going to be for
fundraising Mayfield is going to invest
in the number one pitch from 500,000 up
to 5 million so that's going to be fun
so there'll be a there'll be a Pitch
part of it if you have not raised money
before Venture money you're eligible to
win for this pitch but it's also just
demos anyone can demo that's at scale
that has Revenue will pick the best ones
but we'll give you a slot you can come
demoing yourself in front of thousands
and it'll be tons of fun we'll have the
best folks there there'll also be
hundreds of other there'll be thousands
of sales and revenue and marketing
leaders just come piit your app just
apply to come piit your app it's going
to be really fun and we're going to run
it for three days straight right in the
middle of sasra anual so you got to do
it in two minutes but we'll anyone that
that passes the bar as near as we can
tell will be able to pitch their app for
two minutes live at s and it'll be a lot
of fun too so apply to that and with
that Emilia I will I'll open it up to
any questions that we have yeah Jas
let's say that people have been
listening to you for the last year and
they realize that they're not going to
IPO turn it around he look the product's
not there right now we get we have to do
multiproduct everybody's somewhat defeat
let's say people are somewhat jaded now
like how do you turn the company culture
around what do you do T tactically yeah
I'll tell you I asked that question to
many
leaders I asked it on a lot of the
podcasts I do and the interviews I I did
and the truth
is most driven Founders and most sales
leaders that are really training hard
that they're really going for it they're
going to tell you you can't you got to
bring in new blood you can't turn it
around I no one thinks you can right
there are certain things I talk with
leaders and Founders behind closed doors
and every there's certain things they
don't say aloud that they don't say
aloud that we need people to return the
office because half our company doesn't
work okay it doesn't you don't need
return to office for high performers the
best people will get it done they'll get
it done from Antarctica or they'll get
it done in the office but the mid
performers just don't work from home
right they barely work and so they they
want to supervise them for 40 hours it's
not about collaboration it's about
getting any work done so you can't talk
about that the other thing you can't
talk about is like people that are jaded
or broken a little training isn't going
to help like a a team trip to Miami is
not going to help you got to gently move
them out like now you're better with
half the employees as smallart as you
are that all want to be there than folks
polluting the culture right so you got
to start over now and listen if growth
is slowed and No One Believes In Your
Vision except for you it's you're it's a
tough you got a tough a tough situation
it's still fixable but you need 100% new
it day what often happens when you have
a mission-based startup right is that a
handful of the folks still are really
into it right because of what you're
doing they enjoy it and they see the
challenge and they see the ability to to
get traction throughout not most maybe
not most or maybe not some but then you
just got to line on the folks that
believe and get rid of the rest doesn't
mean fire maybe it means fire them
tonight maybe it mean moves them out
maybe that thing is just to go hire
someone else and transition them out
when you have new resources but they all
got you can't turn people around like
this I'm going to bring up Ali next um I
get it that you talk about expansion and
growth and everything but what I can
understand why the end goal should not
be profitability isn't the goal of the
businesses make more money than you
spend look it absolutely I have in the
past
run cash FL Break Even business I've run
businesses that were reliant on venture
capital and I've run businesses that
were very profitable I've run businesses
that made millions of dollars in profits
per year
and so I'll answer the question to you
full if you can create a business that
generates millions of dollars per year
in your pocket that's something to think
about like if like in the devops tools
like for a while a lot of folks made fun
of base camp okay because alas because
alasan and base camp and others in the
early days were huge competitors atas
in's worth What Now 60 billion right and
people like to say oh this base camp
idea of being profitable and lean those
guys are losers they don't say that
anymore right because every year base
camp has made the founders like $2
million a year for 20 years they own
even 10 years ago they bought a villa in
Italy to race their Pagan okay what's up
Pagani like $4 million I think they like
bought like the first four street legal
ones and then they bought a villa to
race it in because base camp made so
much money okay so like that can work
right and so can and listen making a lot
of money in your own company can work
right but it doesn't first of all the
math doesn't pencil out for VCS they
can't invest looking for hundred or
thousand extra returns for a share of
the profits right you're not Venture
back if you're profitable that's just
one obvious thing and if you just if you
don't understand just understand VCS
want to need to invest in multi-billion
dollar outcomes not millions of profits
multi billion dollars of Mark caps so
that that's a simple answer the subtler
answer is listen running base camp and
making 10 million bucks a year 20 that
is a dream for 99% of folks okay only a
few folks want to go differently want to
go bigger than that but realize that the
reality is we can talk about Net Present
Value we can talk about discounted cash
FL analysis and all the stuff that
economists look at and blah blah blah
blah blah the reality is the way to make
a lot of money off a startup often is
for someone to buy you for a lot of
money and you are purchased on a
multiple of
Revenue so you're not purchased listen
there are small private Equity firms
that will pay you three times your cash
flow so if you spend 10 years building a
business that makes a million in profits
and someone wants to buy you for three
million you think that's a great deal
after a decade of your life take it okay
but if you're in a hot category today
you might get bought for 200 million
with one million Revenue what's the
better outcome 200 million or three
million right the reality is and you
could debate it some you could say it's
Shenanigans you could mock how it works
but until a certain terminal point tech
companies are Valu on a revenue of
multiple until a certain point and so if
you're not playing that game you might
make a
hundredth a thousandth of what you might
make if you could lean into it right
that that's the reason right so there's
lots of theories I'm not an economist
ultimately once you're public you can do
these DCF analysis and you can stop
looking at air multiples and you can
start looking at EPS multiples but it's
a long time until it happens so thanks
for the question it's a good one thank
you than I for the last question cool
thanks so Jason we just got to one
through founder Le sales and now this
year we're going to try to get from one
to
three the
smbs hiring my first account executive
now okay any any pro tips there in terms
of you got the company a million
yourself as the salesperson pretty much
yeah mostly and what's the deal size and
who's the buyer and what's the deal size
we sell to a similar buyer like
owner.com we sell the restaurant coffee
chop average deal de SI 5K ACP well 5K
is still enough that someone can make
money off the sale where you're at Al
I've said this so many times but yet so
few
listen just listen at your ACV you
probably need to hire a kid the kid
could be 60 or 16 right but you need to
hire this is a high velocity S&B
business okay I don't know whether it's
outbound or inbound but you're probably
not you're probably not sitting in
restaurants yourself are you is it door
too or is it okay so you need it so
interview 30 kids and again this is not
a chronological thing this is more
Spirit okay you don't need a grizzled
veteran okay interview 30 kids of any
age and be religious about this just
only hire one you would buy your own
product from don't give on this I don't
care whether they work to toast I don't
care if they worked an owner I don't
care if they were the first person in at
service Titan that those are almost the
worst because they're full of themselves
okay or or they're not willing to do the
work slow it down and if you interview
or 40 you will US almost always find one
often from a unique background because
like you're not as well known as toast
or owner or Shopify so don't expect it
they're GNA have the they may have a
quirky background okay they may have
gotten fired after two years it's some
or they they may have joined three
startups that all failed okay who cares
my point is go in don't be prejudiced
don't be biased too much screen for a
little bit of product IQ okay they don't
have to be like super the smartest kid
in the world but they have to have
product take you they have to before you
even meet them I would make sure by
email they understand your value prop
for real don't just take dumb meetings
like why do you think some just I just
got one question before we get on the
phone why do you think a restaurant
would use us if the answer is terrible
do not take the meeting do not waste you
have not enough time if they give you a
good answer no matter what their
background is don't be prejudiced don't
be biased no matter if they give you a
background that's a hint then take up
the call and over the next two to three
screens ask yourself what you buy from
them would you buy from them and I've
written this post a couple times at
saster everyone has this magical first
sales rep okay that somehow out of all
the folks they are the one that could
sell the product in the early days okay
and there's different versions of but if
you T if you want to have fun anytime
you talk to a Founder north of 10
million ask them if they had a magical
sales rep and what the secret was okay
and you'll hear all different
backgrounds I could share the background
of mine but the one thing is they're
usually product sants right and they
just love the mission they know the
product and they know the mission they
they're often mediocre at
sales not always but they're often mid
pack they're not they don't have all the
great tactics in the games and they but
man and I had this guy his name was Joe
klei of all the guys I interviewed I
didn't get it at the time but my
co-founder came into my office almost
yelling you gotta hire this guy Joe I'm
like I don't know man like his
background's weird and it's just there's
some seems like a nice guy but I don't
get his know this is the best I didn't
get at the time it's because he knew he
already knew the product the mission the
value prop cold no one else could in the
first 30 and then I'll fast forward you
that next year at dreamforce not that
much longer is it dreamforce this just
Salesforce is big thing we were
exhibiting there and this huge sales guy
must have been like six5 huge Bulan I
think it might have been a Kel's cousin
or something like that big guy he grabs
me walking into dream force and grabs me
by my shirt he's because I had a I had a
a company sweatshirt ecosan he grabs Me
by do you work at echos sign I'm like
yeah I'm the founder you know Joe klei
I'm like yeah he's our he's on our sales
team of one he's on our Sal I love Joe I
love him that's who you want okay and
it's not so much that Joe was lovable
it's that he knew this product cold
right and so when the when you finally
get a prospect and you don't have enough
leads in the early days you don't have
enough Pro you're not overflowing with
them right you need that sales rep that
the customers are going to not just love
but trust like they trusted Joe they
trust to architect a solution to their
problem and you've already closed a
million of Revenue so I'll end it saying
oh for yeah I don't care where they came
from if they graduated from high school
whether they dress weird whatever their
problems are if if they don't bathe
often enough that one that you would buy
from hire her or him and don't hire
anybody else or they'll be gone they'll
close nothing they'll close nothing and
even worse what will happen is you will
quickly not even give them the leads
because you'll see Revenue go down
you'll see Revenue go down right so I
hired that one guy Joe he and I got to 2
million revenue and then I hired my
first VP Sal from Salesforce he hired 10
people all of them except Sam blonde who
have done a lot with them became brecks
all of them all the other nine clothes
nothing and with 10 people that VP sales
closed less than me and Joe
did they all were came from the right
places and they all checked the boxes
and many of them were reasonably
attractive and fun to go out for drinks
with but they never knew the product and
so we lost all of them except Sam lost
100% of the deals to docy sign back then
100% because they didn't know the
product this was too early in the space
the space was not matured they're not
going to buy from someone that they
don't know we didn't have this great
brand right but when it was me or Joe we
closed them and then when Brendan came
back in and Sam did it then we could
beat them in most deals right but they
lost zero they closed nothing these nine
reps nothing and I wouldn't have bought
from them I wouldn't have bought from
them but later when you scale then we
can break when you scale you need a
divver a more heterogeneous team you
need folks you wouldn't buy from go talk
to a tow WP you wouldn't buy from most
toast stps okay but toast how ref is to
to have a thousand or something like you
your sales team will figure out how to
train and onboard and then you'll have a
brand and the brand will do a lot of the
work for you and stuff but you ain't
there triple redundant interview 30
there's probably only one you'll buy
your own product from make them even do
a demo hire her him you will not fail
thanks everybody see you next week